# PyBer_Analysis
Module 5 Matplotlib
## Overview
The two datasets (city and ride date) have been merged into one dataset in order to conduct analysis on the information provided. The purpose of this analyis is to determine the count of rides by city type, count of drivers by city type, total amount of fares by city type. Addtionally, the purpose is to find hhe overall average fare per ride and driver by city tpe. With this information, we will be able to determine which city type is cheaper and which is more expesnive. Additionaly, the data will allow us to determine the fares by month, seperated by each city type, which will determine which time of the year that is cheaper to ride than others.
---
## Results
With this dataset, we were able to determine which city type had the largest count of rides. The rural area had 125 rides, Suburban had 625, and the Urban area had the most rides with 1,625 rides. When examing the total number of drivers by city type, we found that there was 78 drivers in the rural area, 490 in the suburban area, and 2,405 drivers in the urban area. It makes sense that the urban areas have both the largest number of rides and drivers because those have a direct correlation with eachother; the more rides, the more drivers needed. Addtionally, we found the total fares by city type: the rural area had a total of $4,327.93 in fares, suburban had $19,356.33 in fares, and the urban area with $39,854.38 in fares. However, when looking at the average fare per ride by city type, the rural area tends to be the highest, with an average of $34.62 per ride. The suburban area has an average fare of $30.97 per ride, followed by the urban area with $24.53 per ride. When looking at the average fare per driver, the highest fare tends to be in the rural areas as well. The rural area has an average fare of $55.49 per driver. The suburban area has an average fare of $39.50 per driver, and the urban area has an average fare of $16.57 per driver. This makes sense because the rides are cheaper in areas where there are more drivers and rides needed; On the flipside, it's more expensive to get a ride in the rural area because the demand for rides is lower, which results in fewer drivers in those areas.
---
add image
---
The graph allows us to state that the overall total fares are highest in the Urban area, followed by the second-highest in the Suburban area, and the least total fares in the rural area. The graph is deceiving, as it is true that the total fares are highest in the urban area, however, the average fare amount by city type suggests that fares are highest in the rural area due to having less demand for rides and therefore, drivers. The total fares tend to spike in the weeks at the end of February and mid-April. When fare prices spike and/or drop, all city types follow the same pattern, when one city type spikes, all city types spike and vis versa.
---
## Summary
Reccomendations:
1. Include all months of the year to determine if there are certains points in the year where fare prices spike and/or. If the fare prices spike, it may be beneficial to hire more drivers in those areas.
2. The data should include the distance and total time of the ride; This would help with analyis because it's hard to determine the correct fare price for all city types without having this informaiton. For example, rural areas cover more area and destinations tend to have a longer distance, as well as a longer time, so the fare prices need to calculated properly to make up for the distance and time taken by the driver. On the otherhand, urban areas have shorter distances to destinations, but are more prone to running into traffic, which is when the time of the ride would once again come in hand when analyzing fares.
3. The comparison of total rides and total drivers suggest that more drivers need to be hired to cover the rural and suburban areas. One way this could be accomplished is by removing some drivers from the urban area and moving them to the rural and suburban areas so that all ride requests can be supported. There are currently too many drivers in the urban for the number of rides being requested.
---
Analysis Performed by Katelin Catton
1/12/2023
